{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Gene duplication is a mutation type that has high potential to affect phenotypes. In addition to altering gene dosage, duplications may provide a substrate for further phenotypic change by allowing for rapid protein function divergence. However, not all gene duplications result in novel functional proteins; many duplicated genes lose function through pseudogenization. Here, we investigate the frequency of tandem gene duplication and the relative rates of the tandem duplicate fates in two inbred maize lines- B73 and PH207. Tandem duplicate clusters identified using the blast2raw script within the CoGe pipeline contain approximately 15% of the protein coding genes in B73 and approximately 23% of protein coding genes in PH207. Tandemly duplicated genes do not show an enrichment of transposable element sequence similarity with respect to genome wide averages when all classes of TEs are aggregated. However, LINE elements are highly over-represented in tandemly duplicated genes, and SINE elements are highly under-represented in tandemly duplicated genes, as compared to the genome wide average. We further test evolutionary rates hypotheses to compare the relative frequencies of pseudogenization, subfunctionalization, and divergent function of the tandem duplicates. This study represents the first genome-wide analysis of tandem duplicate evolution across multiple de novo genome assemblies within maize.}