{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Orthologous gene groups were identified with Orthofinder v. 1.1.5 (cite, link). Briefly, Orthofinder identifies orthologous groups of genes by reciprocal protein BLAST searches followed by MCL clustering. Orthofinder was run with the default E-value threshold of 0.001, and the DendroBLAST algorithm to infer orthologous groups. Orthofinder\'92s dependencies were satisfied with MCL v. 10.201 (cite), BLAST+ v. 2.2.29 (cite), MAFFT v. 7.305 (cite), FastTree v. 2.1.8 (cite), and DLCpar v. 1.0 (cite). The BLAST databases used by Orthofinder were generated from amino acid sequences of 13 publicly available grass reference sequences from Phytozome V12 and Ensembl Plants (Table S1_), and from the longest transcripts for each gene model in the B73 and PH207 reference sequences. \
The amino acid sequences of each member of each orthologous group were extracted, and aligned with Clustal-omega (cite.) Multiple sequence alignments  were then back-translated to nucleotides. Maximum likelihood trees were generated from the back-translated alignments with RAxML (cite), using a HKY (cite) nucleotide substitution model. Synonymous (dS) and nonsynonymous (dN) substitution rates were estimated for each branch with PAML. Clade tests (cite) for differences in dN/dS among maize tandem duplicate genes with respect to sequenced grass species were performed with PAML. \
Scripts to run Orthofinder, perform alignment back-translation, generate trees, and estimate dN/dS ratios are available at [GitHub Link].}