{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\fi360\sl288\slmult1

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Tandem duplicate genes were identified with the \'91blast2raw\'92 script from the CoGe pipeline (cite, link). A window size of 15 genes was used to identify potential tandem duplicates, with a C-value of 0.1. Tandem duplicate genes in regions that are syntenic with 
\i Sorghum bicolor
\i0  were identified by comparisons of each maize reference sequence to the 
\i S. bicolor 
\i0 v3 reference sequence. Tandem duplicate genes in non-syntenic regions were identified by comparison of the B73 reference sequence to the PH207 reference sequence, using the same parameters. Quota align outputs were parsed with a custom Perl script to identify putative tandem duplicate gene IDs. The longest transcript from each putative tandem duplicate gene was chosen to represent the gene in evolutionary rates calculations and phylogenetic analyses. Putative tandem duplicate clusters and the longest transcripts for each gene are given in Table S_.
\fs24 \

\fs28 CoGe identifies multiple genes in one genome as tandem duplicates if they match the same gene in another genome, but does not directly examine the sequence similarity in a single genome. Therefore, some tandem duplicate clusters identified with CoGe will not be true tandem duplicates; they will instead represent annotation errors in the genome assemblies. Tandem duplicate clusters were further filtered by similarity of their member genes. Full length coding sequences from each tandem duplicate gene cluster was translated into amino acid sequence, and iteratively aligned with Clustal Omega (cite). The alignment algorithm was run for a maximum of 10 iterations, using the full distance matrix in each iteration. The alignments were then backtranslated to nucleotides. Tandem duplicate clusters with less than 75% sequence identity and less than 50% coverage to each other were removed, because they are likely not true gene duplications.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Potential cassette duplications were identified by examining tiled clusters of tandem duplicate genes. Clusters of tandem duplicate genes were flagged as potential cassette duplications if the genomic region they occupy overlap, and are not nested. Potential cassettes were further filtered such that tandem duplicate clusters in cassettes were required to have membership numbers that are within two genes of each other. An illustration of the cassette identification procedure is given in Figure S_.}